# Auto-Insurance

The growth of the autonomous vehicle industry will have a staggering effect on the auto insurance industry. Insurance premiums are a transfer of risk between the insured and the insurer. Because fully implemented autonomous vehicles (AV’s) are safer than human drivers the probability of the insured filing a claim and the size of the claim decrease.  With this decline in frequency and severity, premiums will go down as well. 

This paper predicts premiums for differing levels of autonomy based on the classification system published  by SAE International. Premiums are categorized by gender, vehicle type, and 6 age groupings. Pure premiums from 2009 are calculated by combining frequency of accidents and severity of accidents, where severity is estimated comprehensive costs. A Gamma log-link GLM regression of the insured’s characteristics on pure premium predicts future pure premiums for 4 safety features. Actual premiums are then calculated by using the ratio between total revenue and profits from Progressive’s 2009 Tax Report. Crash data is obtained from the 2009 National Automotive Sampling System General Estimates System (GES) collected by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Vehicle miles traveled (VMT) by age, gender, and vehicle type is obtained from the 2009 Nationwide Household Transportation Survey (NHTS). Population data was estimated using the ‘survey’ package in R. Present premiums are calculated using the Consumer Price Index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
